
To begin, I am going to talk about how this project that I worked on as part of a group contributes to the Common Good:
https://github.com/nisajey/Project4

I worked on this project in my Web Development class. It was one of our final projects in the class. The goal was to implement a website that would use a database, various libraries, and other tools in order to show a reactive map that can be used to find crime data about St. Paul. My group did well in striving to accomplish this goal. When ran, this project creates a website that does exactly what it is supposed to. It displays a map that shows different details about crime in St. Paul, and the map is interactable. You can zoom in/out, drag around the map, and even place pins.
This project serves the Common Good because it allowed all of my group members to get better at our respective crafts (programming) while also providing a resource that the public could use. Someone could use this website to decide where to move, for example, or something like that. The project also allowed all of the group members (including myself) to deepen our friendships with each other and to crete new friendships! All around, this was a fun project that added a lot to the Common Good.


Here is another project that contributes to the common good:
https://github.com/jmeyerust/jmeyerust.github.io

This project was also from Web Development. In fact, this was the first project we did in that class. I think this project is significant to me because it marked, in my opinion, a new phase of my Computer Science courses. Up until this point, most of my classes had foundational programming information, and the projects were set up in specific ways to illustrate whatever general scenario we were discussing in class. There was some creativity in the implementation of what was being asked, but that was mostly it. I enjoyed this, don't get me wrong. But like I said before, this project struck me as something different than what I was accustomed to before. Here, we were simply asked to make a personal website with the basics we had learned so far in Web Development. There were a few outlines, but most of it was left up to interpretation. This project really opened my eyes to the amount of creativity that can be brought into the world with coding. Whereas previously our maximum cretivity was simply choosing different ways to implement the same general function (which was interesting in its own right), this project was more about creating something with code that truly reflected you. This new creative element was exciting for me, and I have enjoyed it in many more projects/classes since.


One final project I worked on that was momentous to me in my education was our class-long project in Database Design I. While this project is not on Github unfortunately, I can describe the project and why it was important to me here.
Basically, throughout the semester, my group used a dataset that was collected by Dr. Hickson here at UST that analyzed microbialites which originated from Mars to develop a working database system that allows users to view, insert, and update info. This project ended with us making a CLI for the entire thing, which was pretty cool, since I had never done that before.
This project was important to me because it was my only time working throughout a semester on one project with the same group (other than this class). It was fulfilling for me to see us go from the disorganization of the data originally at the beginning of the semester to the organized data with a developed UI at the end of the semester. This project also helped me to apply and understand the course concepts much better, which is a principle I plan to use more in the future by incorporating projects when I am trying to learn new coding ideas/techniques.


Overall, I am very appreciative of my time at St. Thomas and my time with the CISC department specifically. It has been a very influential part of my life and I will use the knowledge I have gained here for the rest of my life.
